Hello everyone I'd like to
o welcome you to today's training session Azure Fundamentals
s virtual educator prep session for Microsoft
Learn for educators. My name is Marissa Vitiello an
I'll be your moderator today. We're broadcasting
this training session through through teams live events
s and the audio can be heard through your device speakers
Today's session is being recorded on behalf of
the Microsoft Corporation. By participating in this
session using Microsoft Teams.
Your name, email address, phone number
and or title may be viewable by other session
participants. If you do not consent to being part of a
life of a recorded session, please
discontinue disconnect at this time. If you have questions
for the presenter or need support, please use the Q
A panel located on the right side of your screen. We have
presenters standing by to answer your questions during today's
session and will have time available at the end for further questions.
We have closed captioning available in English
Japanese, German, Spanish, Chinese and Korean
today. To turn on closed captioning, click the CC button
located in the lower right hand corner of your
screen. Thank you for your patience. During these announcements are
trainer today is Marla Marie Azure technical trainer.
Marla over to you.
Thank you Marissa. Good morning, good
afternoon. Good evening. Wherever you may be joining us
from and welcome to Microsoft. Learn for
educators, virtual educator prep session for
Azure Fundamentals or a Z 900.
So first I'll start off by introducing myself
As mentioned, my name is Molly Murray. I'm an Azure
or Microsoft technical trainers. You could say an
my experience prior to Microsoft. I spent most of my
career as in software development mixed with a
a little bit of consulting as well. And then I dived into my
cloud journey and ever since it has been a wonderful
experience. Being a trainer here with Microsoft.
As some of my highlights you see listed
there, I am on what we call our fundamentals team where we
focus on fundamental Microsoft courses and
we train and teach learners globally. So I'm
very excited to be able to share my knowledge with you as you approach
teaching this particular course an any that come
later on in the future.
Alright, so first and foremost we kind of want
to dive into talking about the expectations
for this particular session an when we think
about the expectations and feel free to jot
down some of your expectations that you have today
for the session an I would love to address what we're covering
as well as any comments or concerns
that you may have, but this is a great opportunity within your
classes to learn more about your students as well. So being able to understand what
excites them about.
The Azure fundamentals, if they have prior
cloud experience different things like that and the very most important thing
to let them know is that this is an
introduction into the cloud and so this is their first stop
into their cloud journey in order to
o build that confidence in the fundamental building blocks as they start
to dive into more maybe complex parts of
the cloud. Or they want to increase their knowledge for potential
job opportunities. And so definitely this is a great place
to be as your students start to learn about the cloud and as they want
to expand their knowledge.
In it.
So the other kind of note, I want to add on here
is that this session, this virtual educator
prep session is focusing solely on
the approach to how you are going to teach the Azure
fundamentals to your students, and so we're not actually going
to walk through all the demonstrations and
basically teach the Azure content
itself where solely focusing on the approach in the
best practices and tips and tricks in order to
teach this course successfully to your students.
So a short kind of agenda here it may look
k like a lot of bullet points there, but it's going to go really smoothly
today. And so some of the important things that will talk
about throughout today is going to be resources where you can
find this information that's being covered today as
well as you further information you'll need as you
prepare to teach the content and
really feel confident about it.
Then we'll dive into a little bit of Accessibility
Understanding what that means and how you can integrate those best practices
into your classrooms. Then we'll switch
gears and start to talk about the overall
approach. The course flow in the module best
practices, so really will breakdown each module and look at
what is important out of this module. How do I want to
approach teaching this information to my students and what they
would want to focus on when they're preparing to take the exam?
And then we'll kind of wrap up with what the
best strategies are around demonstration. So when your demo ING to your
students and giving them opportunities to take those demos
and perform them as labs and what those strategies may look
like, and then at the end will cover a little bit of
supplemental materials. Things that I feel that will be very
beneficial for you as you begin to either prepare to teach
the course, or for those that may have not taken the exam
yet. You also can benefit from those materials as well.
So first let's look at resources.
So when I talk about these resources here today
on this kind of particular slide, you're
going to really want to focus on this, is what
you can benefit from. And so when you get here
and you say OK, I want to Start learning. I really, maybe I don't
have the certification myself as an
n instructor, the first thing that you'll want to look at is the
Microsoft Learning Path. This is free
website that's accessible to everyone
globally, and they are able to go out and actually walk through
the content that is on the exam.
And so it is a self paced learning path. You can track your
where you're at in the path there are
e knowledge check questions at the end of each section. It's a
very interactive kind of learning option that you
can leverage and benefit from and personally in
my training courses when I teach this content that
t is the place that we point all of our learners too is the Microsoft
t learning path.
Another option that you have is to
attend Microsoft Virtual Training Day if you
u go to events.microsoft.com that is going to
be alive, training that you
can broadcast to see and walk through the content as well
There is an instructor that is teaching it and it's going to
of course be more interactive as you're able to ask
questions and there are moderators there. Live answering your
questions as that event is taking place.
Also, you can benefit from practice
exams and then also vouchers that you have
available to take the certification. So for those process excuse
me, practice exams you have free or discounted
price is available to you as an educator and then as well
for the certification also. So I do highly
encourage that you prepare and ramp up if you've not taken the exam
already as you prepare to you, teach your students about it.
Additionally, there is an
overview of the materials that you either have
already gained access to or that you can
currently gain access to as well. And if you visit that
link there AKA dot Ms slash LDC you will
see all of this information there and so
o some of those things are listed here, such as
assessment guides, course data sheets so
o outlines and course timings of how you may want to break up teaching
particular content.
There is also the educator teaching guide that's going
to be your high level overview of all the things that you're kind of wanting to
know around the materials. Planning any
technology requirements, and keep in mind I will cover some of these
topics at a high level today, however, your
educator teaching God is going to have a lot of it
written down for you to be able to go back and access as well.
And then there's also the additional lab instructions
for helping walkthrough demos with your students
the PowerPoint slides and things as well and
d then also the Trainer Handbook, which is
going to give you that found no knowledge of what you're teaching
and kind of really more away that you can look at it from a
textbook textbook standpoint per say.
Also, the information that is
being shared today through this presentation if
f you want to go back and revisit this recording, it will
also be at that link as well, AKA dot
Ms Slash L DC.
And we will cover the supplemental materials
links as well, so we'll be able to come back and see those also.
Now looking at the
Azure credit, so a lot of our questions come from
kind of understanding how you approach teaching
and having enough credits to walk through these
demonstrations and labs with your students and so kind
of a couple highlights here that you'll want to note is that
for students they get $100 credit
when they create the Azure for students account that is going to be
typically for your students over the age of 18, and that can be renewable as well.
As an educator, you would get a $200
credit when you create the free Azure account and then there are
a couple of other options here around Azure
Lab Services and dev Tools for teaching
This is going to be sometimes a preconfigured environment that you
can leverage and benefit from, but most of these other
kind of scenarios you would want to reach out to your Microsoft
contact. So in your case your it PM
or representative that is able to share with you
what options your institution has when it comes to.
The different credit options.
Additionally, based on
teachings and in other kind of feedback and things that
we get, there is not a lot of credits that are
required for the fundamental courses and that is
based on best practices of you create your
r resources and then you shut them down or you remove them when you no
longer need them as we know if you keep your resources
up and running, they're just going to keep eating up at your credits and
so that is something that you want to keep in mind once you
u are finished, you remove them or shut them down so that you're not
continually paying for something that you're not using.
Lastly, here with the credits
the number one question that we get is, well, what if my students
or I as an instructor run out of
credits? We encourage you to reach out
again to your Microsoft contact or it PM whoever your
Microsoft Representative may be in order to find
out what the options are for your institution.
So now let's switch gears and talk a little bit about Accessibility
and some of you may be familiar with this topic
as it is important in classes or
classroom settings to think about this particular
approach. When you're teaching an really. When we think about
Accessibility, we're engaging with learners that have diverse
learning needs. An as instructors, we must make
sure that our learning environment is always inclusive
and always allows our learners to feel confident and
d so with that, there are multiple ways to.
Kind of make your again environment
your presentations. How you approach teaching things to
be as inclusive as possible.
So one of the first things you'll see is making your PowerPoint
presentation accessible, so making sure that your
students have possible have the Accessibility for the
PowerPoint for the slides, or for whichever information that they are
needing. Additionally, looking at accommodating the
different needs that students may have
so looking at hearing mobility, vision, neurodiversity
these are all things that some of us
may not think about on a regular basis.
Especially if it's not something that you're
experiencing or have experienced, and so with that being
said, we must think top of mind that
every individual is unique in different ways and we want to
make sure that everyone feels confident.
So for example, myself when
I was teaching and in the role that I'm in
I traveled every week to different Microsoft Office
e isn't taught thousands of learners globally, I
have encountered on multiple occasions learners that approach
me and say I have a hearing impairment. What do you
suggest to make sure that I'm able to follow along with your
training or presentation today? And I would always encourage them to sit in the
front of the room to make sure
that I am projecting. Clearly that I'm able to.
Speak and make sure that I'm articulate with how I'm
explaining things, and I would ask them throughout
if everything is good. If I need to change anything to
meet their needs, so with that I always try to make
everyone feel as inclusive as possible.
There are also the several
additional kind of tips and tricks in your educator teaching guide
that I mentioned, and so in there there's a lot of materials in
different links and things that you can visit to
understand how you can help adapt to the environment as well.
So now let's look at the overall approach.
And when I say the overall approach this
s is how I teach the course. This is things
that I want to establish at the beginning, and so in your
case, when you're thinking about teaching your students the overall
l approach is that very first top of mine couple
e of sentences that you tell them when they are in
know in your classroom and what I mean by that
r example, this is a high level
overview of Microsoft Azure. This is the
fundamental course, so we won't go too technical too
deep into topics.
We're going to keep it high level. We're going to go about a
mile wide inch deep into each topic that we're covering and
d I make sure that the students and the learners in my
class understand that just because in my particular
case I may have some that are a little bit more advanced, or
they have a little bit more knowledge, and so they may want to dive deeper in
certain areas, but I have to reel him back in to let them know that this
is a
fundamental class and we want to make sure that everyone is getting the same information and that they feel confident.
In the topics as they prepare for the exam.
So when we look at this first kind
of area here, we look up objective domains and there
are six different modules that tie directly
to the certification exam and
d as you start to go down the different modules, you're diving more
into Azure concepts and topics. So when
we first look at module one, that's what I like to say
The first layer, the first building block that's
s it. That is cloud concepts that is looking at you
t is the cloud and.
What are some of the key terms and things of that sort?
But as you go down into module 234
so on and so forth, that is going to target
directly more Azure, you're looking at Azure
Services, the different solutions and tools, and ways that
you can integrate services in Azure as well
So with that we will actually spend some time walking
through the best practices of each module, but
the very important thing when we look at the overall approach is
that you explain to your students that this is a fundamental course
This is going to introduce them to the cloud.
And especially to Azure and how they can
leverage and benefit using some of the services as they learn
more about them.
As mentioned.
All six of the modules map directly to
a certification exam and is listed here, you'll see
that there are weight percentage is tide each of
f those objective domains, and with that being
said, you'll notice some of those weights or a little different
than others, meaning that you might see or your
r students might see more questions in those areas with the
higher percentages on their exam and
d with that you want to make sure that you have a general understanding
across all of the different.
Areas just because those percentages are
pretty close to one another for those that might be
familiar, we had a different version of the examine
different content, slightly modified content prior
to, and it was in a four module format. We've now
migrated to ES6 module format an it is
very smooth, very easy to follow
and we kind of spread out some of
those weights so that it's easy to kind of study each area and feel confident across those different topics.
Additionally, as you explain to your
students about the certification, again, you want them
to feel confident in each area, simply because those percentages
are pretty close to one another, even though
you might see more questions in certain areas, it's still important to
have a high level understanding across the different areas.
And this time when I'm in my
courses, I will walk through a couple
of questions about the preparation of the exam
such as you only need 700 points out of a
000 to pass their all multiple choice questions, so there are
no labs in the exam. That's something that you really
want to make sure your students understand that even though in your course they may
have opportunities for demonstrations in labs, they won't
actually have to do those in their exam.
Adding on to the overall approach, the next thing
is setting expectations. So remember when we first started
this session, I talked about the expectations for
this session of what we would be covering today and it's going to be
very important again that you let your students and
set their overall expectations for the class that they have registered for.
So the very first question is who is the audience
I get that question all the time simply
because everyone wants to know if I want to learn about the cloud do
o I have to be super technical? Do I have to have that type
of background? And the answer is no this certification
n exam is designed for candidates looking to
demonstrate that foundational knowledge of the cloud and
d so with that anyone can sign up to take
this particular type. Of course, learn about this type of
content, whether you're
Technical whether your business more business
oriented across any type of
roll that you're in, we say that this is the best
place to be as you start your cloud journey because
it is the fundamentals.
What are the prerequisites as mentioned
d, because it's a fundamental course, there are no prerequisites this
s is your first stop into your cloud journey, so letting
your students know that this is the best place to be as they start
to grow and want to expand their knowledge of the cloud.
Hands on labs. So as I mentioned
d, we'll talk about this a little bit more as we go through
this session today. But we talk about hands on labs. That's going to
give your students an opportunity to really get their
hands dirty in Azure. I am
personally a visual learner, and so for
me, Labs is a great opportunity to kind of connect the dots
between lecture and actual demonstration
Being able to see how the service works and how
it's integrated with other.
And so with that, hands-on labs is a great
way to reinforce what your students are learning.
And then Lastly, the goal is Azure certification.
For all of your students and for yourself, I always encourage
everyone to take the certification exam I do
o have learners that will sign up for trainings and you
ask who is everyone going to take the exam and they may say, yeah, I don't know
e always encourage them to. Just because it's a
great skill set to have, especially for your students as they
are wanting to expand and maybe even look for
potential job opportunities or wanting to
dive into certain areas in technology.
The cloud is forever growing and
expanding. Its very innovative and so this is a great place
to be kind of gaining those skills and the knowledge
around cloud.
Now it looks like a little bit about
customizing content to fit your environment, So what
that simply means is that we will get
questions around. Well. How can I break up the content? How can
I approach teaching it in a timely fashion and
integrating labs and doing different things and
d so this question can be a little bit
more generalized, just depending on the structure of
your University or college and that
t means that whether you're on a semester or year based
how you're breaking up your course is going to be a determining factor.
Here.
And as I mentioned, you have
your learning download center and all of the different you
ecator guides and preps that will also have
this information for you to reference as well. And so the
Azure fundamental provides approximately 16 hours
of content. However, it can be used in different
ways. It can be taught in different formats so it
could be that it's introduced inside of an
existing course that's already taught it also
o can be alongside of course, where.
The learning objectives are broadly aligned
so maybe there is another course that is cloud related that
you want to integrate these particular topics or
concepts into. You can do that as well.
Or of course, you have the option as a standalone
course. You want to have the Azure fundamentals as a course
that can be integrated into your
institution as well. However, as I
mentioned, the time required is going to vary based
on which approach you select as well as the labs and how
you integrate that with your students. So you have a lot of
options of how to customize the
content into your environment.
So now let's look at technical requirements.
So for technical requirements, we won't
spend much time on this slide just because, again
it is included in your learning downloads that are all of
your teaching guides and things that you're provided with, but I'm going to
highlight a couple of important things here.
So when it comes to it being an educator
of course you have typical things that are required, such as
your PC or laptop. How you're going to display your slides
in the information to your students. However, the important thing to
have here is your Azure subscription and as we
e know, in order to create any of the services within
Azure, you must have a subscription that is
live and has credits that are readily available to
use, and so it's going to be really important that you have the subscription set up.
Prior to teaching your course, just so that you're
prepared when it comes to doing those demonstrations
and things for your students.
Additionally, for the students, it's going to be the
same having access to
the presentation. Having a PC laptop, all of that fun stuff
again. Also, having an Azure subscription is going to be the
most appropriate thing here that's recommended for their lab
practice, so definitely making sure if possible
that you send out instructions or
information to your students, maybe a couple weeks or so before the class so that
they already have their subscription ready to go.
And when you start your class, they can just hit the ground
running and you won't have to do a lot of troubleshooting when
it comes to their subscription setup.
So now let's look at course flow.
So the course flow is going to
be very important to think about, because this is
focusing on making sure that your students can
follow along with your sessions. So when
you approach teaching, however, you've chosen maybe the standalone
course, or maybe you've chosen to integrate some of these
topics into a current course you have, however
you choose to customize your content for your students, it is still
going to be very important that they are able to follow
along and.
Take heed to the different topics and things
being covered because of course they will need to be feeling
confident as they prepare to take the exam.
So making sure that you're slide
slide deck and all of that is created for optimal
flow. It's easy to follow along I
I personally feel that the Azure content and how it
is presented now with the six module format is phenomenal
It introduces topics at the perfect time
Typically we may have students that say, ask A
question. What is this? An will be getting ready to introduce that
topic just right on the next slide and so therefore we
have really taken a lot of time.
To make sure that our deck that we're presenting
or providing for you is easy to follow along so
that you don't have to go in and make a lot
of changes, modifications and things of that sort.
Now the important thing that you will want to
know is that because you're teaching this to your
students, it's going to be taught in multiple sessions, and that's
inevitable. Just because you're going to be teaching over a semester over
a year. However, it's broken up for you and
d with that it's going to be important that you build on top
of the topics that you're covering. So if we're talking
about module one, even though you're breaking up
that content, you want to make sure that your students are still
able to follow along.
And remember the topics that are being covered overtime.
The important thing that is
going to play a role in making sure that your students
remember is going to be review questions.
These are already things that I'm sure many of you instructors
already do, but homework assignments
quizzes test all of that great stuff
aving reviews to make sure that your students are able to
remember the content that is being covered.
Now a couple of more things here that
are course completely optional depending on the structure of
your class, and I know that we are in unique Times Now
A lot of virtual sessions and a lot of virtual
universities and things are taking place now, but
developing slide deck notes Whiteboarding where appropriate
There's lots and lots, of course benefits around those things just
because as you start to teach some of the topics with the
Azure fundamentals, you may find that.
Jotting down some examples or jotting down
some important notes is going to be very helpful so that
you don't try to remember every single
intricate detail about something you can just have a couple of
side notes there and say, here's an example around
this service. Here is something that maybe everyone can relate to.
And I'll talk about some of those examples as we continue
on today.
So now that we talked about kind
of the overall approach setting expectations
s and all of the things that you want to do to lay the
beginning, introduction to what this course is
really about now want to focus on module
best practices. So how you're going to approach
teaching each module to your students?
So the first module is going to be
cloud concepts and I like to say that this is
very important because it's building the foundation
of well. What is the cloud? And so if you have students that have
just never really known about the cloud, maybe they've done very
minor research or they really just don't have much
knowledge. This is going to be a very important module
that they understand.
So it's building the foundation around key
terms terms that they'll see throughout the cloud
and especially if they continue on their cloud journey after
the fundamentals. Also, cloud services and
models. So when we talk about cloud models public
c cloud, private cloud, hybrid, cloud, what those
mean cloud services infrastructure as a service
platform, software as a service all of those
e terminologies, services and models are going to be very
important that your students understand.
Because they will see them all throughout
any cloud course that they take as they start
to use the cloud. All of those things are going to be very
very relevant as they go through out and learn more about
the cloud.
There are also
great places to introduce storytelling case studies
and I like to say focusing on real
institution examples can also be beneficial because
it helps your students bridge the gap
between. OK, I'm learning about the cloud, but how is this really used in
my day to day life? Maybe my institution uses cloud
services. Maybe there's a Department that is
leveraging some of these tools and features and
different things so thinking about.
How you can integrate real world examples or
institution examples into your teaching as well?
I like to use fun examples, so for example
if we look at the cloud models, when I
introduced that topic to my learners, I'll introduce
the public cloud as a taxi
cab and say hey, I want to hop into this
taxi and use this service. So I'm going to pay for this service as
I use it. I raised my hand. I'm in New York, I said hey, I need a taxi
Someone else raises their hand and says hey, I'm headed in the same direction
Let's hop in this taxi cab together we can share
this resource.
And head to our destination.
Now once we reach our destination, we
both pay our money. We hop out and we're no longer
paying for that resource, so therefore the public
cloud allows me to share resources with other users and
d I'm paying for that resource as I'm using it once
I no longer need it. I don't have to pay for it anymore.
So that is how I give examples around the public cloud
maybe with the private cloud I say.
A lot of private limo. I have my own private limo
or car service. I tell the limousine where
to go. I have this black tinted car
No one can see me. I use that as an example
of the private cloud because as an organization they
have complete control over the security. They have complete control
over how that data center is managed so they get
to control who, what, when, where, how
all of those things and they don't have to
share that resource with anyone.
So that's just a couple of examples I try to like. I said make it a
little more interactive for my learners and kind
of again paint the bigger picture as to hey
I use a taxi. I use a limousine. It makes sense.
Now for Module 2 this is going
to be core Azure services. So when we look at
module two I like to say this is the meat of
the course. This is where a lot of the content kind of
sits, even though we spread out a lot of the topics these
are going to be very important topics for your students to
remember, just because it's really again now
that you've introduced the foundation of what the
cloud is an introducing Azure Now we're
e going to look at how am I actually going to create.
Resources in Azure. How does Azure
actually work together to create different services
and integrate with other types of goals
and things that I need to maybe run a business?
So with that module two will definitely
be broken up into multiple sessions just because it is a lot of
content and again utilizing case studies utilizing
storytelling, making real world examples or
institution examples apart of your sessions.
When we talk about Module 2.
A couple of the important things you'll see here that are
bullet pointed architectural components.
That's going to be.
Regions availability
zones resource groups that is introducing how something
is created in Azure, and so when we talk about
a region are region in Azure, is comprised of one or
multiple data centers. So how that works is
OK. I want to create let's say a virtual machine. When I create that
virtual machine, I must select a region in which that virtual
machine is going to be deployed into what's inside of the
regions data centers. That is where my virtual machine
is. It's inside of a data center.
That is inside of a region and so knowing
g and understanding those architectural components is going to be very important
for your students.
Now when we look at some of the other
services here, such as databases, compute
storage, all of those are going to be great opportunities to do
demonstrations. There's really a demo option for every one of
those areas that you can explore.
When we talk about compute, services were looking
at virtual machines containers, storage you'll
breakdown some of the different areas around storage you can
n do demonstration around that, and then of course networking as
well. But what I do want to note is that you do not have to
do every demo and remember that's because there
are no demos or labs or anything in the
actual exam. This is just an opportunity for
your students to get their hands on experience that they're looking for.
Being able to create these different services.
Now when we look at Module 3, this is going to
be core solutions an management
tools. So I like to really look at Module 3 as.
What is the best solution for given scenarios
So if I have this business that's needing
to create some type of service that reads in you
device information, things of that
sort, what would be the best solution for this and I
I would select one of these core solutions? Those are maybe the types
of questions that you could encounter.
So with that you'll see things around
artificial intelligence. You'll see things around monitoring services
Azure management tools, which is scripting languages that
you can use within Azure in order
to create different services serverless
s computing and so with this particular module
you can again choose the demos that
you feel are going to be most important even in that.
You can choose the demos that you feel are more
Your students are more interested in. I like to pull my
students sometimes and ask them hey, which demos do you all want to focus
on which ones are you more interested and sometimes will say oh
want to see artificial intelligence or I want to see some of
the ways you can use serverless computing
such as functions or logic apps, so there's
lots of opportunities for demos here as well.
But again, typically with these
types of areas or this particular module, these
are going to be tools and services, and in your exam
or in your students when they take their exam, they
maybe ask questions to help them choose which one of
these services is best for a business scenario that's given so
o I I'd like to stay pretty high level
on this module just because you won't again see really in
depth questions around how does this service
really work. It's more so.
What is this service and would it meet the needs of
this business scenario, so making sure that your again
your students understand at a high level.
What some of these areas are and that they feel
confident as they walk through these different types of demos
as well?
For module, for this is going to switch
gears a little bit and look at general security and network
security features.
This is looking at Azure Security now
w I like to say this module can be.
It can be a little overwhelming for some students
just because security is a very
detailed kind of topic. There it can be
pretty. It can become office technical, let's say to
some students and so with that, making sure that you
have examples is going to be really helpful for them.
I utilized sometimes whiteboarding or
diagrams as I start to explain the different layers of
security and so there's lots of different kind of tools and
features that Azure has to help explain.
You know what services can
used to ensure the safety of
data and applications and things like that.
So being able to explain to your students if you have a
resource, these are the different layers of security that you can build
around that particular maybe application. And this is how
it works. This is what a firewall would be used for versus a network
security group, so having some type of example to show
them to draw out that's going to help them to
better understand these types of topics.
Now when we look at let's say
y, Azure Security Center, that is what we call a
re baked environment demo. That means that
if I go into the Azure portal, which I'll bring up for you all today.
This is already in there for me, so the Azure security
Center, some of the monitoring services that I showed
which were like Azure monitor Azure service
e Health. All of those are already given to you in the Azure portal.
So therefore those are easy demos, you can just go
out, pull up the security center an, show your students exactly what
it looks like, and they can navigate and kind of play
around with it. Additionally, the Azure Key vault that's
s another great demo to show that's going to be
a centralized cloud location where secrets certificates
s, passwords and things can be stored inside of Azure.
Easy demo to show doesn't take much time
at all, and so definitely again utilizing
examples around security that your students can
easily understand. I bring in maybe an
example around your institutions
library and maybe your institution is utilizing a database
to keep track of all the books that are rented
and when they are returned, who they are rented by
That is an example around hey maybe in Azure
service could be using a database to track those things.
And maybe you have a layer of security around that database so
that not just anyone can come in and start to manipulate the
data, modify or change it. So being able to again
as I mentioned, giving real institution examples to help your
students understand.
Tips for module
5 Identity governance, privacy and compliance features.
Great area here too.
Really have demos as well. There's lots of opportunities
here rather than just lecturing. So first
and foremost you kind of introduce identity services you start to
o talk about what is the difference between authentication
versus authorization? I would very I would
d be surprised if there was not a question on the
exam of what is authentication versus authorization so making
g sure your students understand what the true differences
is going to be very important.
You start to introduce cloud governance
strategies, understanding, really
what how they can govern subscriptions, how they
can govern, what a user can do inside of their
subscription. So role based access control
resource locks, tags, policy's making sure that
they understand what those different services are, is going to
be very helpful an for all of those types of
services. You can do a demonstration in my classes
s we have lab time.
And there is a lab for each and every one of
those are back resource locks, tags and policy
y's. There's a separate lab for each one, and they're very
easy. Labs, definitely easy, and I like to say that they are fun because
I always demo them in my classes.
Lastly, there's going to be the
option of looking at privacy and
compliance websites. So in your presentation you'll get
to apportion talking about, for example, the
Microsoft Privacy statement, the Trust Center, and
these are going to be really just slides with kind of lecture kind
of notes. I like to pull up
those websites and show because their public facing websites that anyone
can access. So I'll go out and search for the Microsoft
Privacy statement and I'll pull it up and I'll show my learners. Hey, this is where you can find out.
What Microsoft is doing with your data, how their
processing it and for what purposes. And you can read
all about that and learn all the intricate details around that type
of information. So that's a great place to just pull up those websites and allow
your students to interact with them rather than just
talking about what those websites are.
And then Lastly module 6
Azure cost management and service level agreements this
s is going to look at the factors that
influence cost, helping your students to understand tools and
ways within Azure that they can help to manage their cloud
cost. And again important that they understand these
topics in preparation for their exam here
e I always demonstrate the Azure pricing
Calculator. It's really fun.
Facing website students actually
could follow along with you because all of the things that are
public facing websites of course do not cost anything because
it's not inside the portal. It's separate from that so
o with that pricing Calculator is a way to
see estimates around services and things
You create an Azure before you ever create them, so I
could look at how much would it cost me to create a virtual
machine with the specific configurations and I
can get estimates and see and compare cost and all
of that great stuff so.
Definitely great opportunities to do that with
the Azure pricing Calculator and the total cost
of ownership Calculator as well.
The last couple of things here is explaining what
service level agreements are that is going to be important
because I guarantee there most likely going to see
a question on their exam around what a Nestle is
so making sure they understand that in
their preparation and then Lastly looking at what is preview
features versus general availability and preview
features are going to be know features that are tested
They're being tested by Microsoft, they're
going through kind of a beta mode.
And once they are 100% ready to go
all the bugs and codes and things have been fixed that
t is what then becomes generally available or
general availability to all Azure customers, so making
sure that they know little kind of differences and things
around that as well is going to be helpful to them.
Now let's look a little bit at
Demos ahnlab strategies.
So the very first thing when we talk
about demos and labs, a general
portal demonstration should be first. So for most of
your students, if they are brand new to the cloud or really to Azure
they probably have never seen the portal or
really know how to navigate it. So that is going to be the
very first thing that you want to introduce them to.
And then even also after they haven't been
introduced, being able to allow them
to do demonstrations. Maybe if you are in person they can come
and kind of walk through in front of the
class or even virtually maybe an opportunity there as
well. So I'm going to pull up the portal for you and we're going to
walk through a general introduction of it.
Alright, so this is at first glance
what my portal looks like
as I pull it up. This is my home
screen. This is what I have duct as my home screen. If I wanted to
Utiliza dashboard or something different I could do
that as well but this is kind of what mine looks like at first
glance. When I log in.
You'll notice here kind of some different icons
I have the option for sending feedback if I wanted to give
feedback around the portal. Things that could be improved or
changed, or things that I like. I could do that.
I also have the option to submit a
help and support ticket so if I have any issues with the
portal, any issues with my service is anything that
is going on currently that I'm having a problem with
I could submit a support ticket an escalated as necessary.
Portal settings here I can
change the look, the feel how I want
my portal to actually be displayed when I do
log in, and when I interact with it. So again as I mentioned
d, this is my home default view. I have the portal menu here on
the left side it could be
fly out so it's hidden, or I can have it docked
where it stays there until I want it to go away.
And then you'll see the option for theme
as well. I can change kind of the theme here of what
is particularly maybe easy on my eyes or what I
would prefer. As you know what I want
ortal theme to look like.
And then a couple more up here we see
e notifications notifications is going to be what's currently going
on in your subscription, so anything that takes place
is going to readily be a notification for
you to see any type of alert. Anything that has changed will be
first sent here that you can see at any given time.
And then we have the cloud shell.
So as I mentioned in one of the modules there
e is the what we call Azure management
tools and you have the option to utilize scripting
languages to create things in Azure
and that is what this cloud shell is used for, so this
icon here at the top allows me to open it up and I can use
either PowerShell or Bash to meet my needs.
So that is how you access that terminal
based browser window there.
Now some kind of key things
navigating here on the portal you saw these icons here at the top
but you also see a lot of other things going
on, so will first focus on the left side here
This is the portal menu
This is going to be ways that I can just get to things quickly so for
r example if I want to create a resource, you'll see I can select
their search for the resource I'm wanting to create
Again Home Dashboard view options, and then I
can also look at all services to see what's out there.
As well.
You'll also notice favourites here. These are
going to be my default favourites, so when I created this
subscription these favourites, we're already
listed here for me. If I want to take
away some of these, I can highlight an unselect this star or
for the same I can select the star and add it to
this list and I'll see it here.
You also see you have recent resources
These are some things that may be listed here that I've used
recently, and then also here at the top as
well. I have the option to create a resource here as well.
But one of the really cool things I want to note is
that at the top here I can search
for resources.
And let's say for example, I want to look up
virtual machines. It brings up the services and then it also
brings up other things as well. So for example, the marketplace
where I can search for multiple types of
different resources, whether they're Microsoft related
or other product vendors and things as well.
And then also documentation
I can readily see different
documentation around this service or anything that I'm wanting to
search and I can read up about it as I'm thinking about creating it.
So while we're here, this is again just a
general introduction to navigate and I want
t to walk through. If I were to kind
of at a high level, create something in Azure and how
I demonstrate for my students, so I'm going to select virtual
machines on the left side here.
It's out of my favourites list. You'll see I have
a couple of list you of them listed here, but in
my class, if I was going to demonstrate creating one, I'm
going to select add.
Then I select virtual machine.
And now you'll see here. It brings up all of
the different tabs and steps that I must take to create
the virtual machine as I walk
through these types of demonstrations for
your students is OK to keep it pretty high level
because, again, remember they're not going to actually have
to do this in their exam. So however you want to go in
depth with the creation of these resources is
completely up to you. However, if your students are doing labs
they are going to walk through these steps.
So of course, explaining that they you
l have a subscription and their case, it'll be
their student subscription.
Explaining that anything with the red astrik
is required. So for example, knowing and
explaining what a resource group is to them and in
your.
Slides there when you're teaching module
2, you are explaining what a resource group is, which
is where your resources live. So anything that I create an Azure
must be inside of a resource group. There is no way around
it, so I either create a resource group
or select from one of the ones listed here.
And the purpose really of the Resource Group is for organization.
And then you'll see also things such as selecting the
virtual machine name, selecting the region
remember, region, meaning that this is where the data
center is inside of. So if I select WUS that is
s where the data center is going to be in West US.
And then so on and so forth around what you
ether they are selecting availability zones
images, things of that sort. So I do explain each detail
as I walk through and then also you can explain kind
of as you go down the different apps of creating the
virtual machine. So again, definitely
great opportunity for your students to get that hands on
practice, but they will not have to actually do this in their exam.
Now I did mentioned what I called as
pre baked environment demos, that's things
that are already here that I can just show and I don't actually have
to create things and the security center was one
of them. So if I open up the security center
You'll see here. There's a lot of different things going on
here, and if I go to recommendations
it shows me first hand some of the
e recommendations I could use to implement to create
e to make my environment more secure, more highly
know, secure. As far as making sure my data, my applications
all of that has the upmost level of
security necessary.
Now what I do want to note with this type
of demonstration if you don't have any resources
let's say in your subscription like say you just created
it and you went to security center, you're not
going to see anything here, and so when you get to this
portion of creating or wanting to demo the security
center, you may want to create a couple of resources
just so that you're able to see some type
of percentage or feedback or
recommendation in order to help your students understand what this looks like.
When it comes to the security center
or any of the other monitoring tools.
If I go to Azure monitor again another
r kind of pre baked environment
here that I can just kind of look through
and read and learn more about the resources that
I have. So again I have things
already here. I can select alerts, I can do different things, but if
I don't have any resources listed I will not see anything
to really demo for my students, so it's
OK to create a couple of different things
prior to your class, but making sure that you shut down those resources and you don't just have them.
Constantly up and running because that is going
to eat at your credits. So if you for
example created.
A virtual machine a couple days
before and once you teach your class when you demonstrate
e the VM and all of that great stuff maybe
e at the end of the class you shut down that VM, or at the end of the class
you delete that VM so that you're not continuing to incur
any cost related to it, and you can save your credits as you continue to teach your class.
So that's kind of just a general
introduction of the portal. How you can kind of navigate
around it again, just showing you some of the pre
ed things in there that you can leverage and use, and then at a
high level kind of looking at if you were to kind of
give a demonstration such as
a VM explaining the different topics, explaining why they are important when your
students are creating is going to help them better understand.
So I kind of already showed you that general
portal demo we walked through some of the kind of
environments that are already there for you to leverage and use
Now a couple of other tidbits of
best practices and things that you can benefit
from recording demos.
As we know we are in a unique time and
things are a lot different than they were, you're
even couple years ago. An recording demos
can be very helpful for you simply because.
If you're wanting to maintain certain
timing in your class, or even in the event
that there are technical difficulties, anything that may happen
it could be helpful for you to have demos
or recorded demos as a backup, or you can integrate them into
your classroom as you teach as well
you could have it recorded and then explain as it's playing
There's lots of different options there, but definitely I would
record demos if possible for purposes of
backup. If anything were to happen as well.
Last couple of things here
Using regions closest to your location. That's going to be
very helpful just because you want to make sure that there is
no customer latency when it comes to creating resources, it'll
probably be very tempting for your students to
want to create things in Japan or
different things across Azure, however
they could run into potential
latency or other things as they start to try to create things
across the globe.
And then Lastly familiarizing
yourself with the labs and being able to troubleshoot
So what that means is, as your students are going to begin to
walk through the labs and
practicing with hands on opportunities you want to
o make sure that you understand how these
resources are created and being able to help them
in troubleshoot in the event that they do have any
hiccups or issues or there stuck at certain
points. So making sure that when you approach teaching.
In integrating these labs that they are not just
as brand new to you as they are to the students so that you have some familiarity
with the lab and that you're able to help them.
Alright, so now let's look at supplemental
materials.
So we walked through the module best
practices. Some of the lab strategies and you
onstrations, and understanding how to approach
that. Now these are going to be important materials for yourself
and for your students also.
Now if you look at that first kind
of link there AKA dot Ms Slash.
AZ-900
h 900 update that is going to be a
current breakdown and I'll pull that up for you to view as well
But that's going to be a current breakdown of
all of the topics that are covered for the AZ 900. When I look at that I look at
t it like a syllabus. It's really easy to understand
and follow to see. OK, Module 1 covers these
topics and this is maybe how I want to break it down for my class.
So I'm going to pull that up for you so that you can get
a look at it yourself.
So if I go out to a
search engine and I look up EZ 9
00 Microsoft Azure fundamentals, it'll take me to this certification
exam page. You'll see here it'll say the
e content was updated November 9th and it says please
download the skills measured document to see what has
changed. So if I Scroll down here.
You'll see I have the option to schedule the exam, I know
that as instructors and students you have a
different process than we do here with the industry so
o you I believe utilized sort of port and have a different
kind of structure there.
But as I continue to Scroll down here, you'll see
skills measured and it breaks down again. The six modules that are
covered and the percentages as we saw earlier, and you'll
see this hyper link for download exam skills outline.
I'm gonna open it up in a new tab.
And you'll see here that it gives me
a kind of breakdown
and documentation around each area that's being covered for the
exam. So as I start to scroll.
It's telling me OK describe concepts and
it gives me bullet points of all the different areas of what's
being covered in there.
Also, for module two it's breaking down
each topic that's being covered.
So I again, as I mentioned, I view this as a
syllabus. It's really easy to look at it and
understand. Oh hey, this is what I need to cover and it really may
help as you determine how you want to
teach an fit this content into your institution
Weather again you do it as a standalone course
Or if you decide to integrate it with another course as
well.
So again, if you want to access
this, I'll pull up the hyperlink or the short link again, but
again, if you go out and search for the AZ 900
exam and it gave brings you this page if you scroll
l down you will see skills measured and you can download that as well.
So again, the short link for it is listed there on the slide.
Now for a couple of the other things listed here there
e is Microsoft learn which I already mentioned in the
beginning as the place that you will want to go in your
students for self paced learning that is
s what we within Microsoft recommend to all of our learners in
our classes that they go through that learning path
to make sure that they are able to digest the content at
their own pace and that they feel comfortable
and confident as they prepare to take the exam.
And then again the learning download
d Center as I had mentioned earlier, that's going to be where you
can access a lot of the
information that, whether that is your assessment
guides, whether that is your.
Recording that you want to see from
today's presentation. If you need any type of
handbooks, anything that you are possibly needing
to prepare for this course can be found
in the Learning Download Center.
And then Lastly Microsoft docs
I like to utilize Microsoft learn
n an Microsoft docs hand in hand. Microsoft Docs is
going to be essentially articles around the different
topics and services within Azure, so if you or your
students wanted to learn more about
let's say what an availability zone is and you want a detailed
information that is exactly where you want to go as
Microsoft Docs, because it not only will give
you breakdown and paragraphs of information about the service.
It will also give you how to guides, how to integrate it
with other services. It's really in
depth documentation that you can leverage and benefit from.
Alright, so for exam preparation?
Now that we've walked through kind of a summary of
the learning, an understanding the six different
modules, the audience that you're teaching setting
g the expectations for your students, all of that
great stuff. Again, all of these things tide
directly to the certification exam, and this is proving
the knowledge around the different Azure services the foundational
l knowledge of the cloud, so making sure your students
feel confident that they are not.
Overwhelmed or filling that this is a lot
that they cannot retain? Making sure that they do
feel comfortable with the content that you're teaching.
Now we also covered again those
learning resources, so looking at again the learning download
Center, the skills measured outline
the Microsoft Learning path. All of those things are
not only going to be beneficial to you as an instructor, but also to your students
as well. So I encourage you to share those resources with
them because every student as we know has
different learning styles, so we want to make sure that if
possible, we can meet all of the different learning styles for students as well.
And then for the exam discussion that is
going to focus on again making sure that
your students feel confident letting them kind of what
to expect when it comes to the exam as I
I mentioned earlier, 700 points out of 1000 points to pass.
All multiple choice
questions and multiple choice can also vary it
t could be drag and drop, true and
false. Select two out of five that are correct
things of that sort, so definitely variations of
multiple choice, but again nothing where they
will have to actually do any labs, any demonstrations there is
no hands on in the exam
itself, so making sure that your students understand that also.
And then Lastly, just
really honing in on this is a great opportunity for
them to expand their skill set not only within the
cloud but also building their self
confidence as they start to prepare to maybe
graduate from the institution and start in their
own work journey. This is a great skill to have, especially for those that are
in technology. The cloud is forever growing
changing. It's an innovative place to be and it's awesome.
So I truly, truly hope that you encourage your
students to take the exam and to fill that
It is a great accomplishment to add to their current skill
set that they already have.
So with that being said, I wanna say thank you for
joining this session today. This has been wonderful for
myself to be able to share not only my Azure a little
e bit of my Azure knowledge with you, but also how I
approach teaching this course. It's really important as you
start to teach it that you feel comfortable and
prepared and that you have all of the resources that you need
when it comes to taking the opportunity to then
teach this to your student. So I hope that you all have
thoroughly enjoyed this. If you do have any questions.
We will be here in order for you to post those
in the chat and I will be more than happy to answer
those questions for you. But again, thank you
for your time today over to Marissa.
Thank you so much. My love and thank you all for
attending. We would love your thoughts on the session
Please fill out our survey. I put the link in
the Q&A panel as well and as Mala
mentioned, we will be hanging out here just to see
if anybody has any questions that they want to put in
the Q&A panel in the next couple of minutes
and thank you again and hope to see you in the next training.